One of the most common problems encountered by developers will begin developing micro services is the
impact that this will have on how to handle data access storage and manipulation.
In this lecture we will learn about the different patterns of how data can be managed in a Microcircuits
environment and the advantages and disadvantages of these petards the first better is the shared database
better where services can access each other's data.
For example the order placement micro service would be able to access customer details and also productivity's
which are managed by the customer details micro service and product beater's micro service respectively.
Database transactions are used to guarantee data consistency and integrity although having a single
shared database may seem easier to manage and those are the most flexible to query to date.
This will eventually cause problems in development asking what changes can affect multiple services
and doing such changes becomes changing as more micro services referenced the common database.
It is also possible to run into performance issues as one service may be blocked trying to access data
that is being modified by another service despair formants issues also tend to be harder to track down
as a long running database query could have spent substantial time waiting for data locked by other
service to become available as a result.
The shared database pattern is sometimes considered an Antipater especially for larger more complex
systems as in such cases the performance and development drawbacks combine far outweigh its benefits
the alternative to the shared database.
Better is the database better service better where each micro services data can also be accessed by
other micro services.
Although the pattern is referred to as database service rather than a completely seperate database for
each service it is generally more practical for each micro service to access a separate database schema
or table to avoid having to manage a large number of databases.
The database service better provides some interesting advantages.
Different services can use different data may Logies depending on which best suits their requirements.
For example one service could store data in an obscure database waste another would store its data in
an Oracle database and then other service could store as data in a search engine based database such
as elastic search or soulish database pre-service better promotes decoupling between services and helps
prevent the development and performance issues caused by using a shared database however it also comes
with some disadvantages.
The most notable one is that it is harder to implement queries where data contained across multiple
micro services Diskin still be achieved in different ways such as API composition or through a form
of events or both of which we'll be discussing in the next lectures.
However they still require more effort than a simple query would in the shared database better and other
disadvantage worth mentioning is that there will now be more database system and thing in the system.
Which of course requires more work.